## TIOBE Index for February 2024

This month, Go entered the TIOBE index top 10 at position 8. This is the highest position Go has ever had. When it was launched by Google in November 2009, Go was an instant hit. These were the days that everything that Google did was magic. A few years before Go's appearance, Google released GMail, Google Maps and Google Docs. So when Google announced its first own language, Go, the software community was thrilled. It was the talk of the town. After only 2 months of existence, Go won the TIOBE language of the year award. Unexpectedly, the hype was over soon. In 2015, Go hit position #122 in the TIOBE index and all seemed lost. One year later, Go adopted a very strict "half a year" release cycle (backed up by Google). Every new release, Go improved. In parallel, Docker and Kubernetes (both written in Go) started to become very popular as of 2016. This helped to regain confidence in Go. Nowadays, Go is used in many software fields such as back end programming, web services and APIs. Thanks to its growing adoption in industry, Go seems to be a language that has the capabilities to stay in the TIOBE index top 10 for a long time. Interesting side note: the most recent new language of Google, Carbon, entered the top 100 for the first time this month. -- Paul Jansen, CEO TIOBE Software

The TIOBE Programming Community index is an indicator of the popularity of programming languages. The index is updated once a month. The ratings are based on the number of skilled engineers world-wide, courses and third party vendors. Popular web sitesGoogle, Amazon, Wikipedia, Bing and more than 20 other engines are used to calculate the ratings.It is important to note that the TIOBE index is not about the best programming language or the languagein which most lines of code have been written.The index can be used to check whether your programming skills are still up to date or to make a strategic decision about what programming language should be adopted when starting to build a new software system.

[TIOBE Index Top 20](list_page.md)